dbt-bigquery python model page update (#7145)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/build/python-models.md

- **`dbt`**: A class compiled by dbt Core, unique to each model, enables you to run your Python code in the context of your dbt project and DAG.
- **`session`**: A class representing your data platform’s connection to the Python backend. The session is needed to read in tables as DataFrames, and to write DataFrames back to tables. In PySpark, by convention, the `SparkSession` is named `spark`, and available globally. For consistency across platforms, we always pass it into the `model` function as an explicit argument called `session`.

> The `model()` function must return a single DataFrame. On Snowpark (Snowflake), this can be a Snowpark or pandas DataFrame. On BigQuery this can be BigFrames, pandas or Spark datafame. Via PySpark (Databricks), this can be a Spark, pandas, or pandas-on-Spark DataFrame. For more about choosing between pandas and native DataFrames, see [DataFrame API + syntax](#dataframe-api-and-syntax).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `model()` function must return a single DataFrame. On Snowpark (Snowflake), this can be a Snowpark or pandas DataFrame. On BigQuery this can be BigFrames, pandas or Spark datafame. Via PySpark (Databricks), this can be a Spark, pandas, or pandas-on-Spark DataFrame. For more information about choosing between pandas and native DataFrames, see [DataFrame API + syntax](#dataframe-api-and-syntax).
```

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe"> <Lifecycle status="beta" />
```

<File name='models/my_python_model.py'>

```python
import datetime

def model(dbt, session):
  dbt.config(materialized = "incremental")
  bdf = dbt.ref("upstream_table")

  if dbt.is_incremental:

    # only new rows compared to max in current table
    max_from_this = f"select max(updated_at) from {dbt.this}"

    bdf = bdf[bdf['updated_at'] >= bpd.read_gbq(max_from_this).values[0][0]]
    # or only rows from the past 3 days
    bdf = bdf[bdf['updated_at'] >= datetime.date.today() - datetime.timedelta(days=3)]

    ...

  return bdf
```

</File>

</TabItem>

> 

Reviewer: This section doesn't fully appear in the staging link / preview.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe">

<File name='models/my_python_model.py'>

> ```python

Reviewer 2: Please update this to align with the other examples so it's easier for users to see the differences between dialects (if there are any). This means using the holidays package example

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe"> <Lifecycle status="beta" />
```

You can use the `@udf` decorator or `udf` function to define an "anonymous" function and call it within your `model` function's DataFrame transformation. This is a typical pattern for applying more complex functions as DataFrame operations, especially if those functions require inputs from third-party packages.
- [Snowpark Python: Creating UDFs](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/developer-guide/snowpark/python/creating-udfs.html)

> - [BigQuery Dataframe UDFs](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/user-defined-functions-python)

Reviewer: This link doesn't appear in the staging

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [BigQuery Dataframe UDFs](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/user-defined-functions)
```
@wazi55 is this the right URL?

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe">

> <File name='models/my_python_model.py'>

Reviewer 2: Does bigframes not support `numpy`? If it does, can we align with the other examples using it?

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="BigQuery Dataframe"> <Lifecycle status="beta" />
```

## Specific data platforms {#specific-data-platforms}

> In their initial launch, Python models are supported on three of the most popular data platforms: Snowflake, Databricks, and BigQuery/GCP (via Dataproc and BigQuery DataFrames). Both Databricks and GCP's Dataproc use PySpark as the processing framework. Snowflake uses its own framework, Snowpark, which has many similarities to PySpark.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python models are supported on many of our adapters, including Snowflake, Databricks, and BigQuery/GCP (via Dataproc). Both Databricks and GCP's Dataproc use PySpark as the processing framework. Snowflake uses its own framework, Snowpark, which has many similarities to PySpark.
```

<TabItem value="BigQuery">

The `dbt-bigquery` uses BigQuery Dataframe or Dataproc to run Python models. This process reads data from BigQuery, computes it either natively with BigQuery Dataframe or Dataproc, and writes the results back to BigQuery.

> **Submission methods.** `dbt-bigquery` can be configured to use `bigframes` to execute pandas and scikit- learn code at scale on the BigQuery SQL engine. In addition, `dbt-bigquery` can also use Dataproc (`serverless` or pre-configured `cluster`) to execute Python models as PySpark jobs, reading from and writing to BigQuery; `serverless` is simpler but slower with limited configuration and pre-installed packages (`pandas`, `numpy`, `scikit-learn`), while `cluster` offers full control and faster runtimes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Submission methods:** `
Submission methods: BigQuery supports a few different mechanisms to submit PySpark code, each with relative advantages. 

- BigQuery Dataframes (BigFrames) : Can execute pandas and scikit. There's no need to manage infrastructure and leverages BigQuery distributed query engines. It's great for analysts, data scientists, and ML engineers who want to manipulate big data using a pandas-like syntax.

- Dataproc (`serverless` or pre-configured `cluster`):  Can execute Python models as PySpark jobs, reading from and writing to BigQuery. `serverless` is simpler but slower with limited configuration and pre-installed packages (`pandas`, `numpy`, `scikit-learn`), while `cluster` offers full control and faster runtimes. Good for complex, long-running batch pipelines and legacy Hadoop/Spark workflows but often slower for ad-hoc or interactive workloads.

```

#Grant Service Account user 
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT} --member=serviceAccount:dbt-bigframes-sa@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=roles/iam.serviceAccountUser
#Grant Colab Entperprise User
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT} --member=serviceAccount:dbt-bigframes-sa@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=roles/aiplatform.colabEnterpriseUser

# update the project.yaml file 
models:
  my_dbt_project:
    submission_method: bigframes

# update the profile.yaml file such as this
my_dbt_project_sa:
  outputs:
    dev:
      dataproc_region: us-central1
      dataset: <BIGQUERY_DATESET>
      gcs_bucket: <GCS BUCKET USED FOR BIGFRAME LOGS>
      job_execution_timeout_seconds: 300
      job_retries: 1
      keyfile: <SERVICE ACCOUNT KEY FILE>
      location: US
      method: service-account
      priority: interactive
      project: <BIGQUERY_PROJECT>
      threads: 1
      type: bigquery
  target: dev

```

> **Note:**: BigQuery Dataframe is executed on a default Colab runtime. If no `default` runtime template is available, it will automatically create one for the user and mark it `default` for next time usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:**: BigQuery Dataframe is executed on a default Colab runtime. If no `default` runtime template is available, the adapter will automatically create one for the user and mark it `default` for next time usage (assuming it has the right permissions).
```

<TabItem value="BigQuery">

> The `dbt-bigquery` uses BigQuery Dataframe or Dataproc to run Python models. This process reads data from BigQuery, computes it either natively with BigQuery Dataframe or Dataproc, and writes the results back to BigQuery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dbt-bigquery` adapter uses BigQuery Dataframe or Dataproc to run Python models. This process reads data from BigQuery, computes it either natively with BigQuery Dataframe or Dataproc, and writes the results back to BigQuery.
```

**Submission methods:**
BigQuery supports a few different mechanisms to submit python code, each with relative advantages. 

- BigQuery Dataframes (BigFrames) : Can execute pandas and scikit. There's no need to manage infrastructure and leverages BigQuery distributed query engines. It's great for analysts, data scientists, and ML engineers who want to manipulate big data using a pandas-like syntax.

- Dataproc (`serverless` or pre-configured `cluster`):  Can execute Python models as PySpark jobs, reading from and writing to BigQuery. `serverless` is simpler but slower with limited configuration and pre-installed packages (`pandas`, `numpy`, `scikit-learn`), while `cluster` offers full control and faster runtimes. Good for complex, long-running batch pipelines and legacy Hadoop/Spark workflows but often slower for ad-hoc or interactive workloads.

> 

Reviewer: This section doesn't appear in the staging / preview link

#Create Service Account
gcloud iam service-accounts create dbt-bigframes-sa
#Grant BigQuery User Role
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT} --member=serviceAccount:dbt-bigframes-sa@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=roles/bigquery.user
#Grant BigQuery Data Editor role. This can be restricted at dataset level
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT} --member=serviceAccount:dbt-bigframes-sa@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=roles/bigquery.dataEditor
#Grant Service Account user 
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT} --member=serviceAccount:dbt-bigframes-sa@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=roles/iam.serviceAccountUser
#Grant Colab Entperprise User
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding ${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT} --member=serviceAccount:dbt-bigframes-sa@${GOOGLE_CLOUD_PROJECT}.iam.gserviceaccount.com --role=roles/aiplatform.colabEnterpriseUser

# update the project.yaml file 
models:
  my_dbt_project:
    submission_method: bigframes

# update the profile.yaml file such as this
my_dbt_project_sa:
  outputs:
    dev:

>       dataproc_region: us-central1

Reviewer 3: We're moving towards `compute_region`, which can be used for both DataProc and BigFrames. While `dataproc_region` still works here, we should use the go-forward config in the docs, especially for BigFrames.

Reviewer 2: oh good point

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      compute_region: us-central1
```

      dataset: <BIGQUERY_DATESET>
      gcs_bucket: <GCS BUCKET USED FOR BIGFRAME LOGS>
      job_execution_timeout_seconds: 300
      job_retries: 1
      keyfile: <SERVICE ACCOUNT KEY FILE>

>       location: US

Reviewer 3: This is an optional config, not sure if it's worth noting that.

Reviewer 2: since this is a sample - I don't think we need that

      method: service-account
      priority: interactive
      project: <BIGQUERY_PROJECT>
      threads: 1
      type: bigquery
  target: dev

> ```

Reviewer: This section appears to be missing

> **Note:**: BigQuery Dataframe is executed on a default Colab runtime. If no `default` runtime template is available, the adapter will automatically create one for the user and mark it `default` for next time usage (assuming it has the right permissions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: BigQuery Dataframe is executed on a default Colab runtime. If no `default` runtime template is available, the adapter will automatically create one for you and mark it `default` for next time usage (assuming it has the right permissions).
```
